i don't even have  i i'm on a pc i'm using a controller and  i'm just pressing the b button to talk  oh okay how old are you  how  how old are you kid  i'm 10 i'm 10. you probably shouldn't be  on here  i have like i literally have like a when  you a wedding so we need okay  [Laughter]  [Music]  yeah so the the metaverse to me today  feels like the next  frontier in social connection in much  the same way that social networking did  when i was getting started back in in  2004 and you know that's a big reason  why we wanted to change the the brand of  the company but i think increasingly  it's going to be about building  platforms and experiences that deliver  this sense of presence like you're right  there with another person a valley  couple renews their vows but not in the  way you're thinking 2 000 people  attended but without anyone actually  being there team 12's william pitts has  the story the wedding venue  was my laptop  [Music]  this is not your typical wedding while  we're  waiting for the technical difficulties  two thousand people most of them don't  even know the bride and groom all  crammed into this tiny little wedding  chapel in the sky or in the metaverse  what better way than to expand our love  to the metaverse beyond the realms of  the regular universe like you're right  there with another person but i think  some of the experiences are starting to  come together too so you know we've  we've started to release horizon and you  know work rooms and some of these  experiences where you can feel like  you're present with someone in a place  um it's just pretty crazy to see how  um how that's taking off and it's you  know it's not just games you know games  i think is the natural starting point  but beyond that um we're starting to see  at this point  that social interaction and just hanging  out is starting to become the the  biggest way that people spend time on  these platforms that kind of makes sense  [Music]  mark zuckerberg and tommy talarico  have something in common  in the year 2022  they're both trying to reinvent  the nintendo wii i don't just mean this  in the abstract sense of trying to  recapture or i don't reproduce the  success of the nintendo wii  in very different ways they're grasping  onto different  memories of what made the nintendo wii  great what made it new and different and  innovative in its own time and they're  presenting those frankly old and boring  ideas as if they're new again in the  year 2022.  the metaverse the so called metaverse i  liked it better the first time when it  was called  metopia and me plaza when it was the mii  verse launched by nintendo and when i  say i liked it better the first time  i didn't like it at all  admittedly it wasn't aimed at people  like me and if you google around what  was the response to uh nintendo  launching its own strange cutesy social  media platform and putting the word me  and metopia and reverse on it what was  the critical reaction at that time  what people said was oh  well it looks like nintendo  is really just reinventing facebook they  were taking facebook and adding these  cutesy three-dimensional characters and  little little bits and pieces of  virtual reality interviews immersive  experience this kind of crap oh but  underneath it all it's the same thing as  facebook here we are in the year 2022  and we can say that facebook is now  ripping off that idea in its turn  from  the nintendo wii  uh  we talk a lot about  innovation i  follow the stock market they're all  these experts like kathy wood one of her  catchphrases is don't bet against  innovation you know learn the lessons  you double always invest in innovation  always bet on innovation what really  is innovative here what really is  innovative about mark zuckerberg you  know presenting the world with a product  that nobody asked for that has no  utility that has no function in my  opinion has nearly zero entertainment  value i'll come back to that but that  also  very fundamentally is not new  when meta came out the metaverse right  anyone could say  look at metaverse look at vr chat  what is new and different if you go back  and look at vr chat when it first  launched people said look at vr chat and  look at the crap we already had for the  me plaza nintendo wii what's really new  here none of this was new and none of it  was new fully 20 years ago now when you  think about innovation when you think  about just newness the sense of which  thing is new or is  different in my lifetime there has never  been a new toilet  there are new colors of toilet there are  new styles of toilet their new  decorative elements right but thomas  crapper's invention the toilet has not  changed during my lifetime there has  been no innovation in the technology of  the bathroom during my lifetime hey hey  bet on innovation listen to kathy wood  why don't you go out and take your life  savings and invest in a company that's  going to come with a fundamentally new  and different innovative way to flush  the toilet  could have massive ecological benefits  for the world but it hasn't happened  this is the sense in which we have to  distinguish what is innovation  and what's merely decoration you know  you can put out a toilet that looks  different that's a different aesthetic  appeal to it right you can take the  nintendo wii  you can take the build your own avatar  system the me system from nintendo and  you can aesthetically but are you  actually producing something new and  better and different for customers to  use  think about that word use for a minute  if you made a list of the top five  things you actually use your computer  for the odds are i mean i don't know you  the odds are number one is going to be  word processing  number two is going to be sending email  you know like  you can really sit down and look at what  are the functions what are the uses  you you put your computer to and now ask  yourself  those functions  have they improved  in the last 20 years are they  fundamentally better are they  fundamentally different now  than they were 20 years ago or are we  only talking about a kind of improvement  that's equivalent to  a different colored toilet a slightly  shinier a slightly different shape  to the toilet but when it really comes  down to it the function hasn't improved  and it hasn't changed classic one all  right nice oh nice choice mark ready to  shred even in the absence of innovation  there is this very challenging question  of what does it take  to be  the best  mark zuckerberg has put up this footage  of this video game that exists within  the metaverse  surfing  is that  the best surfing game  of 2022  is it so much better  than all the other surfing games that  people are gonna phone up their friends  and say dude dude you've got to try this  you've got to spend the time you've got  to spend the money you've got to clear  all the other video games competing for  your attention off of the shelf and  you've you've got to get online and try  mark zuckerberg's new metaverse surfing  is it that good is it that much better  you know it's not  and  it's strange to me that someone as  experienced as tommy talarico or someone  as experienced as mark zuckerberg  would waltz into this incredibly crowded  incredibly  competitive corner  of the creative arts  of the money  losing creative arts a field where you  don't i need to break this to you  most people who go into the ballet and  the opera aren't doing it to get rich  they get rich somewhere else and they  lavish their money on the creative arts  that's what's happening to video games  in the 21st century they're going into  that same well-established category of  things that people waste money on that  people support as an art form as a  charity with no expectation of making  money  people like tommy talarico  and zuckerberg both  they seem to think it would be easy  to do what nintendo does  better  so much better  that people are gonna make an investment  of hundreds of dollars and many hundreds  of hours  to come over and play their video games  instead you can have competition in the  arts  in the absence of innovation painting  the technology of paint on the canvas  isn't going to change the way we share  music the way we listen to music changes  but there's a really important sense in  which the human voice  singing  making a song that moves people  emotionally the fundamental technology  there it hasn't changed and it isn't  gonna change you think you can get rich  by clapping your hands together  and singing to the beat  do you think  that's going  to be easy  like you're right there with another  person but i think some of the  experiences are starting to come  together too so you know we've we've  started to release horizon and you know  work rooms and some of these experiences  where you can feel like you're present  with someone in a place tommy talarico  i've spoken to him i interviewed him for  more than an hour  i had the only interview in which he  came out and admitted that he's vegan  i'm biased in his favor for that reason  vegan to vegan i got reasons you know as  a musician in many ways in many  different levels i'm a fan of  tommy talarico and i'm a supporter of  his i hope his career goes well but he  made the comparison to the we himself  when talking about his project what do  you want to do  he has the misguided delusion  that what made the we great  was this controller  this interface and i've got to tell you  my honest  opinion is that the wii was successful  despite its controller despite  this interface i think the wii was  successful because of the same  fundamental elements of classic gaming  that haven't changed since the 1980s and  a huge part of a success was the virtual  console then people being able to  legitimately pay for and buy emulated  versions of games and play hold this  sideways the same way they used a  controller in the 1980s i think the real  fundamentals of what makes a successful  video game haven't changed  and they they didn't change just because  you know the wii had frankly some  gimmicks that distracted from the  underlying fundamentals of white systems  but he looks at this  and he's trying to reproduce and  reinvent the wii reproduce the success  of the wii  in the year 2022 by putting out a new  console that nobody's asked for and that  doesn't make your life better in any way  doesn't offer any kind of function or  functionality that you can't get playing  video games on the computer you already  own or on a playstation 4 or whatever  console you already own you know he's  putting out something that's  fundamentally a redundant piece of  technology  but  it has this gimmicky interface this  controller  then he doesn't realize that what he's  producing isn't really something it  wasn't one of the advantages that we had  but one of the disadvantages that it  that it had to overcome  mark zuckerberg  i think he looks back  at the success of the we  and what he remembers is the weavers i'm  sorry the miiverse  the creation of these cutesy avatars the  social media element and the way in  which the nintendo wii  took the fundamentals of social media  that indeed facebook at one time was an  innovator and you know facebook helped  create all those norms and standards  applications and and it added this  cartoony  3d  clown suit over it it took it and it  made it look  bright and inviting and did you okay  and now he's trying to  revive  that aesthetic  in the year 2022  but it's only  an aesthetic  there is no way  in which it can be more efficient for me  to take this  3d remote and point at a screen  to draw a diagram  right while i'm in a meeting with other  people there's no way  that can be more efficient than my  taking a marker  and writing on a piece of paper or am i  taking a piece of chalk  and drawing on a chalkboard like this  technology in a boardroom meeting it  can't compete  with a thousands of year old piece of  technology whether you think of that as  a as a pencil a pen or a piece of chalk  there is no way we can have 10 people  sitting in 10 different rooms wearing an  oculus  3d visual effect you know virtual  reality headset eight people sitting  wearing eight different headsets they  can't see their hands  they can't see the pencil they can't see  a pad of paper they can't interact with  anything in the actual room  around them sitting using this kind of  device a motion sensing device pointing  and clicking and drawing diagrams and  interacting with a simulated room  this is not merely the case that you're  producing  a different color of toilet a different  style of toilet and trying to pass that  off as innovation when really it's it's  just a fad it's just a fashion it's just  an aesthetic there's no real improvement  function you're actually producing  something that is less functional  less efficient than the technology we  already have what mark zuckerberg is  selling you here  is it better or worse  than having a meeting via skype  i'm old enough to remember when skype  came out and i'm old enough to remember  what people's doubts about it were what  everyone said was well you know there's  this new gimmick  skype  but it's a time waster  it's not any more effective than having  a teleconference meeting there used to  be people really set up they have a  board room set up for teleconferencing  you just wouldn't see the person you'd  hear their voice but you'd have a  serious meeting with people sitting  around a room and a bunch of microphones  that was the norm say well look this  isn't really a step forward it's not  really any better to use skype do you  know what the difference was  skype was cheaper  that's how skype won at that time long  distance phone calls were expensive  prices come down partly because of  competition from skype and everyone  started using skype they said why should  i pay a dollar a minute to do this by  telephone i can do it for free via skype  and then i can see your face  well now here comes meta with all the  inefficiencies of a vr headset cutting  you off the real world all the  inefficiencies of this kind of you know  motion sensing point and click  nonsense  and no matter how great this technology  is at detecting your facial expression  and rendering it on this puppet  that is always  going to be worse than skype it's always  getting worse than a video camera just  recording and sharing what your facial  expressions really are and that video  camera it's always going to be worse  than seeing someone talking to someone  working with someone  in real life  the internet has transformed  the way we share meanings  but it still hasn't made  the paper book  obsolete  what it's made up easier for us to do  is to find the right book to buy the  right book and have it delivered to our  door you can look up the statistics  people still read books  they just don't waste time  looking for them  in a bookstore  it was the bookstore that was the  technology that was made obsolete right  not the book ah see how that works  now let's think really about what the  functions are in our lives what it is we  use computers for  where there hasn't been  any innovation in the last 20 years and  let's think about how we can very  fundamentally move forward  i have learned to type  in an embarrassingly long list of  languages i used to type on a keyboard  in  burmese sinali's the language of myanmar  the language of sri lanka thai laotian  cambodian or kamai whatever you want to  call it right  for a very brief period of time i was  typing in greek in hebrew  japanese chinese  and when i was young you know i can  remember getting out the scissors and  tape and you know  put taking each letter and then  gluing them onto the keys on the  keyboard so i could see the language i  was typing then soon enough you get past  the point where you need that because  you've got it you've got it memorized  okay  forming  words and ideas  through the technology  of the keyboard that hasn't improved in  20 years  and it hasn't improved  in 100 years  why  because all of our innovation is being  funneled into  this kind of [ __ ]  that in no way is actually improving the  way we use technology  in our day-to-day lives  you